Add documentation for remote store migration (#7121)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/migrating-to-remote.md

---
layout: default
title: Migrating to Remote-backed storage
nav_order: 5
parent: Remote-backed storage
grand_parent: Availability and recovery
---

# Migrating to remote-backed storage

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/7986).    
{: .warning}

Introduced 2.14
{: .label .label-purple }

Remote-backed storage offers OpenSearch users a new way to protect against data loss by automatically creating backups of all index transactions and sending them to remote storage. In order to expose this feature, segment replication must also be enabled. See [Segment replication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/segment-replication/) for additional information.

> We support migrating a document-replication based cluster to Remote-backed storage through Rolling Upgrade mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We support migrating a document-replication based cluster to Remote-backed storage through Rolling Upgrade mechanism.
```

Author: It is just a mechanism .

> We support migrating a document-replication based cluster to Remote-backed storage through Rolling Upgrade mechanism
> 
> Rolling upgrades, sometimes referred to as "node replacement upgrades," can be performed on running clusters with virtually no downtime. Nodes are individually stopped and upgraded in place. Alternatively, nodes can be stopped and replaced, one at a time, by hosts running the new version. During this process you can continue to index and query data in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We support migrating a document-replication based cluster to Remote-backed storage through Rolling Upgrade mechanism.

Rolling upgrades, sometimes referred to as "node replacement upgrades", can be performed on running clusters with virtually no downtime. Nodes are individually stopped and upgraded in place. Alternatively, nodes can be stopped and replaced, one at a time, by hosts running the new version. During this process you can continue to index and query data in your cluster.
```

## Preparing to migrate

> Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indices before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.
```

> Users need to move to OpenSearch 2.15 version as a pre-requisite of this migration.

Reviewer: `2.14` instead of `2.15`?

```suggestion
Users need to move to OpenSearch 2.14 version as a pre-requisite of this migration.
```

> **Important:** OpenSearch nodes cannot be migrated back to document replication as of 2.15. If you need to revert the migration, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.

Reviewer: `2.14` instead of `2.15`?

```suggestion
**Important:** OpenSearch nodes cannot be migrated back to document replication as of 2.14. If you need to revert the migration, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.
```

{: .important}

## Performing the upgrade

> 1. Verify the health of your OpenSearch cluster before you begin. You should resolve any index or shard allocation issues prior to upgrading to ensure that your data is preserved. A status of **green** indicates that all primary and replica shards are allocated. See [Cluster health]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-health/) for more information. The following command queries the `_cluster/health` API endpoint:

Reviewer: Should we also recommend that the `active_shards_percent_as_number` should be `100`?

Author: it is not a necessity per se.

           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "primaries"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```

1. Perform a flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index:
   ```json
   POST "/_flush?pretty"
   ```
   The response should look similar to the following example:
   ```json
   {
     "_shards" : {
       "total" : 4,
       "successful" : 4,
       "failed" : 0
     }
   }
   ```
1. Set the `remote_store.compatibility_mode` to `mixed` to allow remote-store backed nodes to join the cluster
   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {
           "remote_store.compatibility_mode": "mixed"
       }
   }
   ```
   The response should look similar to the following example:
   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : { 
      "remote_store" : {
      "compatibility_mode" : "mixed"
      },
      "transient" : { }
   }
   }
   ```
2. Review your cluster and identify the first node to upgrade.
2. Provide the remote store repository details as node attributes in `opensearch.yml`, as shown in the following example.

   ```yml
   # Repository name

>    node.attr.remote_store.segment.repository: my-repo-1
>    node.attr.remote_store.translog.repository: my-repo-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   node.attr.remote_store.segment.repository: <repo name (example: my-repo-1)>
   node.attr.remote_store.translog.repository: <repo name (example: my-repo-2)>
```

>    node.attr.remote_store.translog.repository: my-repo-2

Reviewer: Should we add an example yml with remote cluster state enabled as well? We can specify that it can be enabled/disabled independently starting v2.14.

Author: It is not necessary to enable remote cluster state .

   
   # Segment repository settings
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.type: s3
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 1>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 1>

>    node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.region: us-east-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.region: <region (example: us-east-1)>
```

Author: Following the remote store documentation approach only.

   
   # Translog repository settings
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.type: s3
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 2>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 2>

>    node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.region: us-east-1

Reviewer: same as above

   
   ```
1. Stop the node you are migrating. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss**.
1. Deploy a new container running the same version of OpenSearch and mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted.
1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster. Wait for the cluster to become green again.

> 1. Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each node in your cluster. 

Reviewer: We need to add the migration direction too here?

Author: Good catch. added .

> 1. Reenable shard replication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable shard replication:
```

Author: We are reenabling as it was enabled before.

   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {
           "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "all"
       }
   }
   ```
   The response should look similar to the following example:
   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "all"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```
1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy:
   ```bash
   GET "/_cluster/health?pretty"
   ```
   The response should look similar to the following example:
   ```json
   {
     "cluster_name" : "opensearch-dev-cluster",
     "status" : "green",
     "timed_out" : false,
     "number_of_nodes" : 4,
     "number_of_data_nodes" : 4,
     "discovered_master" : true,
     "active_primary_shards" : 1,
     "active_shards" : 4,
     "relocating_shards" : 0,
     "initializing_shards" : 0,
     "unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
     "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
     "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
     "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
   }
   ```

> 1. The migration to remote store is now complete, and you can begin enjoying the durability and performance benefits.

Reviewer: We need to revert back to `strict` compatibility mode?

Author: done.

## Related cluster settings

You can use the following cluster settings to enable migration. 

| Field | Data type | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| :--- |:----------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | remote_store.compatibility_mode | String   | Defaults to`strict` mode only allows either non-remote or remote nodes depending upon the initial cluster type. When `mixed`, it allows remote and non-remote nodes to join the cluster. |                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| remote_store.compatibility_mode | String   | Defaults to `strict` mode where it only allows either non-remote or remote nodes depending upon the initial cluster type. When set to `mixed`, it allows remote and non-remote nodes to join the cluster. |                                                                                                      |
```

---
layout: default
title: Migrating to Remote-backed storage
nav_order: 5
parent: Remote-backed storage
grand_parent: Availability and recovery
---

# Migrating to remote-backed storage

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/7986).    
{: .warning}

Introduced 2.14
{: .label .label-purple }

> Remote-backed storage offers OpenSearch users a new way to protect against data loss by automatically creating backups of all index transactions and sending them to remote storage. In order to expose this feature, segment replication must also be enabled. See [Segment replication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/segment-replication/) for additional information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remote-backed storage offers a new way to protect against data loss by automatically creating backups of all index transactions and sending them to remote storage. To use this feature, [segment replication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/segment-replication/) must be enabled.
```

> We support migrating a document-replication based cluster to Remote-backed storage through Rolling Upgrade mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can migrate a document-replication based cluster to remote-backed storage through the rolling ppgrade mechanism.
```

Rolling upgrades, sometimes referred to as "node replacement upgrades", can be performed on running clusters with virtually no downtime. Nodes are individually stopped and upgraded in place. Alternatively, nodes can be stopped and replaced, one at a time, by hosts running the new version. During this process you can continue to index and query data in your cluster.

## Preparing to migrate

> Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indices before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.
```

> Users need to move to OpenSearch 2.14 version as a pre-requisite of this migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before migrating to remote-backed storage, upgrade to OpenSearch 2.14.
```

> **Important:** OpenSearch nodes cannot be migrated back to document replication as of 2.14. If you need to revert the migration, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of OpenSearch 2.14, OpenSearch nodes cannot be migrated back to document replication. If you need to revert the migration, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.
```

{: .important}

## Performing the upgrade

> 1. Verify the health of your OpenSearch cluster before you begin. You should resolve any index or shard allocation issues prior to upgrading to ensure that your data is preserved. A status of **green** indicates that all primary and replica shards are allocated. See [Cluster health]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-health/) for more information. The following command queries the `_cluster/health` API endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Verify the health of your OpenSearch cluster before you begin using the [Cluster Health API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-health/). Resolve any index or shard allocation issues prior to upgrading to ensure that your data is preserved. A status of **green** indicates that all primary and replica shards are allocated. You can query the `_cluster/health` API endpoint using a command similar to the following:
```

   ```json
   GET "/_cluster/health?pretty"
   ```

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

You should receive a response similar to the following:

```

   ```json
   {
       "cluster_name":"opensearch-dev-cluster",
       "status":"green",
       "timed_out":false,
       "number_of_nodes":4,
       "number_of_data_nodes":4,
       "active_primary_shards":1,
       "active_shards":4,
       "relocating_shards":0,
       "initializing_shards":0,
       "unassigned_shards":0,
       "delayed_unassigned_shards":0,
       "number_of_pending_tasks":0,
       "number_of_in_flight_fetch":0,
       "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis":0,
       "active_shards_percent_as_number":100.0
   }

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Add a space after this code example.

Author: i have kept it similar to https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/_install-and-configure/upgrade-opensearch/rolling-upgrade.md

> 1. Disable shard replication to prevent shard replicas from being created while nodes are being taken offline. This stops the movement of Lucene index segments on nodes in your cluster. You can disable shard replication by querying the `_cluster/settings` API endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Disable shard replication to prevent shard replicas from being created while nodes are being taken offline. This stops the movement of Lucene index segments on nodes in your cluster. You can disable shard replication by querying the `_cluster/settings` API endpoint, as shown in the following example:

```

   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {
           "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "primaries"
       }
   }
   ```

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You should receive a response similar to the following:
   
```

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "primaries"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```

> 1. Perform a flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Perform the following flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index:

```

   ```json
   POST "/_flush?pretty"
   ```

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

   You should receive a response similar to the following:
   
```

   ```json
   {
     "_shards" : {
       "total" : 4,
       "successful" : 4,
       "failed" : 0
     }
   }
   ```

> 1. Set the `remote_store.compatibility_mode` to `mixed` to allow remote-store backed nodes to join the cluster. Set `migration.direction` to ensure new indices are allocated to remote backed data nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Set the `remote_store.compatibility_mode` setting to `mixed` to allow remote-store backed nodes to join the cluster. Then, set `migration.direction` to `remote_store`, which makes new indexes are allocated to remote backed data nodes. The following example updates the aforementioned setting using the Cluster settings API:

```

   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {
           "remote_store.compatibility_mode": "mixed",
            "migration.direction" :  "remote_store"
       }
   }

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Add a space after the code example.

Author: Same comment as before .

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You should receive a response similar to the following:
   
```

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : { 
      "remote_store" : {
      "compatibility_mode" : "mixed",
      "migration.direction" :  "remote_store"
      },
      "transient" : { }
   }
   }
   ```

> 2. Review your cluster and identify the first node to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

2. Now that the remote-store is enabled in your cluster, review your cluster and identify the first node to upgrade.
```

> 2. Provide the remote store repository details as node attributes in `opensearch.yml`, as shown in the following example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Provide the remote store repository details as node attributes in `opensearch.yml`, as shown in the following example:
```

   
   # Segment repository settings
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.type: s3
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 1>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 1>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-1.settings.region: us-east-1
   
   # Translog repository settings
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.type: s3
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 2>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 2>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-repo-2.settings.region: us-east-1
   
   # Enable Remote cluster state cluster setting
   cluster.remote_store.state.enabled: true
   
   # Remote cluster state repository settings
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-remote-state-repo.type: s3
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-remote-state-repo.settings.bucket: <Bucket Name 3>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-remote-state-repo.settings.base_path: <Bucket Base Path 3>
   node.attr.remote_store.repository.my-remote-state-repo.settings.region: <Bucket region>
   
   ```

> 1. Stop the node you are migrating. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Stop the node you are migrating. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss**.

```

> 1. Deploy a new container running the same version of OpenSearch and mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Deploy a new container running the same version of OpenSearch and mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted.

```

> 1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster. Wait for the cluster to become green again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster. Wait for the cluster to become green again.

```

> 1. Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each node in your cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each node in your cluster. 

```

> 1. Reenable shard replication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Reenable shard replication, using a command similar to the following:

```

   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {
           "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "all"
       }
   }

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Add a space after the code example.

Author: same as above.

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You should receive a response similar to the following:
   
```

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "all"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Add a space after the code example.

> 1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy using the Cluster Health API, as shown in the following command:

```

   ```bash
   GET "/_cluster/health?pretty"

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Add a space after the code example.

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You should receive a response similar to the following:
```

   ```json
   {
     "cluster_name" : "opensearch-dev-cluster",
     "status" : "green",
     "timed_out" : false,
     "number_of_nodes" : 4,
     "number_of_data_nodes" : 4,
     "discovered_master" : true,
     "active_primary_shards" : 1,
     "active_shards" : 4,
     "relocating_shards" : 0,
     "initializing_shards" : 0,
     "unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
     "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
     "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
     "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
   }

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Add a space after the code example.
```

> 1. Clear the `remote_store.compatibility_mode` to not allow non-remote nodes to join back the cluster and `migration.direction` as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clear the `remote_store.compatibility_mode` and `migration.direction` settings so that non-remote nodes are not allowed to join the cluster by using the following command:
 
```

   ```json
   PUT "/_cluster/settings?pretty"
   {
       "persistent": {

>            "remote_store.compatibility_mode": null,

Reviewer: I tried running this but it is failing currently (see https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13634). Maybe for 2.14 we can add a step to explicitly set this to `strict`? In 2.15 we can update the docs once we have the bugfix in.

            "migration.direction" :  null
       }
   }
   ```

>    The response should look similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

   You should receive a response similar to the following:
```

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : { },
      "transient" : { }
   }
   ```

> 1. The migration to remote store is now complete, and you can begin enjoying the durability and performance benefits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration to the remote store is complete. 
```

## Related cluster settings

> You can use the following cluster settings to enable migration. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following cluster settings to enable migration to a remote-backed cluster.
```

       }
   }
   ```

   You should receive a response similar to the following:
   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : { },
      "transient" : { }
   }
   ```
   
The migration to the remote store is now complete. 

## Related cluster settings

Use the following cluster settings to enable migration to a remote-backed cluster.

| Field | Data type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| :--- |:----------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `remote_store.compatibility_mode` | String   | Defaults to `strict` mode, which only allows either non-remote or remote nodes, depending upon the initial cluster type. When set to `mixed`, it allows remote and non-remote nodes to join the cluster. |                                                                                                      |

> | `migration.direction` | String |  Creates new shards only on remote-backed storage nodes.  Default is `None`.                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                            

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `migration.direction` | String |  Creates new shards only on remote-backed storage nodes. Default is `None`.                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                            
```
